I mean is there a rule if somebody loves
you more than you can love them are you
are you obliged is there a moral
obligation for you to break up with a
person I don't think that was ever
covered by Aristotle or Plato or any of
the philosophers you've talked about you
know love and relations between the
sexes many of you watching this video
will feel that you have got to know
Jaclyn Glenn over many years of her
sharing her life on YouTube and you
opening up that glowing window on your
screen to see whatever she has to say
whether she's joking about politics
atheism vegetarianism you name it I
first watched her channel many years ago
when she was a med school student
planning to become a doctor and when I
just thought of her as a vegetarian who
was on YouTube talking about her life
and I thought oh isn't it interesting so
in the future this is gonna be a channel
for someone who's a vegetarian it's
gonna be a you know doing her
internships and so on and then becoming
a full-time medical doctor that's what I
thought was the direction of the channel
she later divorced her husband she was
married when the channel started I
believe that's why it's Jacqueline Glen
the Glen is not her maiden name booked
up with her husband dropped out of med
school moved to Los Angeles and her
channel took on a very different
direction that I gotta say is of no
interest to me but obviously I'm a very
very small part of her potential
audience the new direction of your
column was more interesting more amusing
for tens of thousands people hundreds of
thousands of people so of course I'm
happy for nel you know today I turn on
my computer and through this glowing
window what do I see it's the image of
Jaclyn Glenn weeping in deep personal
misery and with the click of a button I
can go over to her ex-boyfriend Channel
and see his perspective on the break-up
and yeah it's times like this that I
gotta ask myself is this why we invented
the Internet is this why Al Gore
invented the internet is this why some
group of brilliant software engineers
sat down and made all this possible for
us to share each other's live to share
each other's misery
and on some level I think we all know
the answer is yes and on some level we
may lament that this is the aspect of
human nature that you
technology amplifies put it that way um
for me there's a kind of philosophically
interesting point that comes up in her
ex-boyfriends reflections on this and I
think I hope you can tell you can tell
the next couple of minutes I'm not
making this video for the sake of
gossiping I have no gossip to share with
you I just add my own kind of
philosophical response to what her
ex-boyfriend said sir ex-boyfriend uses
the YouTube name social repose and
social repose does not do a very good
job of stating his case but if you
listen to his video for minutes and 15
seconds in and then for about a minute
after that you can see that what he's
saying is that he felt he should have
broken up with Jaclyn Glenn about two
months into the relationship because of
the extreme asymmetry of the
relationship this is a polite way of
saying she was in love with him and he
was not in love with her now it's a hard
thing to say to anyone under any
circumstances but I think the most
fundamental thing here is that he
realizes he says openly he should have
broken up with her he says he felt he
should have broken up there and that's
itself a very interesting idea that if a
relationship is asymmetrical
that there's actually a moral onus on
you to break up with the other person
it's very interesting I mean I think
many of you will say why what sense does
that make
why should it be I mean first and
foremost all relationships are
asymmetrical and they're asymmetrical in
many many different ways right nobody
really wants to date or fall in love
with someone who's their identical twin
if you know what I mean
people fall in love with other people
because they have counterbalancing
qualities there's a dynamic you know
discourse through the two of you there's
something going on that sparks the
relationship but we tend to love people
for the ways in which they're different
from us
not necessarily the ways in which
they're they're similar to us in fact I
think that's why it's so easy to take
people for granted once you're in love
with them because you you tend to take
for granted all the things you have in
common but it's a lot easier to
appreciate the differences look I think
there's a really interesting pattern he
relationships where decisions inexorably
get made by the most fragile person
because the other person the person
who's stronger and within whatever
context we're talking about the person
who's less fragile the person is less
likely to get hurt
versus Lesley to get their heart broken
they have to make decisions to try to
avoid the more fragile party getting
their heart broken now it's obvious that
early on a social repose says a couple
of months in the relationship he
realized how fragile Jaclyn Glenn was he
realized that Jacqueline really loved
him and he realized that he did not love
her back or at least if he did love her
at all it was as he says politely
extremely asymmetrical she wanted to get
married and move into a house this was
for her from her perspective this was
the solution all her problems this was a
you know hi can have an permanent
relationship and that was not his
perspective at all so I don't I don't
think I've ever heard anyone discuss
this I mean is there a rule if somebody
loves you more than you can love them
are you are you obliged is there a moral
obligation for you to break up with a
person I don't think that was ever
covered by Aristotle or Plato or any of
the philosophers you've talked about you
know love and relations between the
sexes yeah you know I don't I don't I
can remember that ever being addressed I
would say there's a much more there's an
almost universal principle that in human
relationships the person who is the
least fragile ends up taking on
responsibilities to make decisions to
avoid hurting the other person who's
more fragile